Buzz Words:- it is the features of java.

1)Simple
2)Secure
3)Portable:-platform Dependent
4)Object-Oriented:-oops is a style of programming.Thr principles of oops are i)Inheritence ii)Polymorpjism iii)Encapsulation iv)Abstraction
          
5)Robust:-during the run time If a program requires any resources and the resources are not available, usually programs crash.The programs of C, C++ may crash if they are not written properly.
But Java guarantees start even if there is unavailability of resources,
the program remains executing,It will not crash unless and until a user stops the program.So this feature is achieved by using exception handling and this is achieved using exception handling.
It will not crash unless and until a user stops the program.

6)Multithreadrd:-means,We can break a single program into multiple pieces so that they can run simultaneously.
7)Architecture-Neutral:-means not dependent on hardware architecture if there is JVM install then the java program will be execute.
mainly architecture are:-1)Von neumann Architecture
                         2)ARM
                         3)RISC
                         4)CISC
                         5)Embedded
8)Interpreted:-means interpreter will convert into machine code line byb line and execute it.
               Interpreter is slow than compiler.
               but JIT is faster than Interpreter.             
9)High Performance
10)Distributed:- many computer system ac work together on single program.mainly two applications are use for this i) EJB and ii) Spring.
11)Dynamic:- Every object that is created in java is dynamic because this is creted in heap.
or we can move running form of the program from one computer to another computer
Some of the features of JAVA are
• Its simple
• It is secure , as it cannot get infected by virus or any malware
because of JVM as it has a securer / verifier
• It is Platform independent hence Portable
• The style of java programming object oriented I.e , Abstraction ,
Inheritance , Encapsulation and Polymorphism
• Even if there is unavailability of program JVM makes sure to run it
without any crashes in it therefore it is very robust this is achieved by
exception handling
• Java supports Multithreading
• Java is hardware Architectural neutral so, it can run on any hardware
• It is interpreter language but gives high performance
• It supports Distributed computing which is mostly used by
businesses globally where multiple business are connected to a
single network
• Java is Dynamic because it is created in heap
